_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hi! I am a postdoctoral researcher at GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences. 

My research centers around the intersection of social inequality and family sociology. I am also interested in survey research, aiming to improve respondents' self-administered survey experiences. In my research, I draw on large-scale panel survey data, administrative register data, and experimental data. I use methods from the quantitative toolbox, such as sequence analysis and panel data analysis.

I completed my Ph.D. in sociology at the Department of Social Sciences at Humboldt University of Berlin in 2022. In my [thesis](https://edoc.hu-berlin.de/handle/18452/25603), I examined how women’s and men’s life course biographies shape their wealth outcomes within couples in later life in different contexts.

At GESIS, I work on the novel panel study FReDA – The German Family Demography Panel Study. Data from the first recruitment wave from 2021 can be accessed [here](https://search.gesis.org/research_data/ZA7777?doi=10.4232/1.13745). For more information on the content and study design of FReDA, have a look [here](https://www.freda-panel.de/FReDA/EN/Startseite.html).

Contact me via <theresa.nutz@gesis.org> or get in touch at [Mastodon](https://sciences.social/@theresanutz).

Commit message:

update freda release v2 and research

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hi! I am a postdoctoral researcher at GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences. 

My research centers around the intersection of social inequality and family sociology from a life course perspective. I am also interested in survey research, aiming to improve respondents' self-administered survey experiences. In my research, I draw on large-scale panel survey data, administrative register data, and experimental data. I use methods from the quantitative toolbox, such as sequence analysis and panel data analysis.

I completed my Ph.D. in sociology at the Department of Social Sciences at Humboldt University of Berlin in 2022. In my [thesis](https://edoc.hu-berlin.de/handle/18452/25603), I examined how women’s and men’s life course biographies shape their wealth outcomes within couples in later life in different contexts.

At GESIS, I work on the novel panel study FReDA – The German Family Demography Panel Study. Data from the second release including wave 1 (subwaves W1R, W1A, W1B) can be accessed [here](https://dx.doi.org/10.4232/1.14065). For more information on the content and study design of FReDA, have a look [here](https://www.freda-panel.de/FReDA/EN/Data/Daten).

Contact me via <theresa.nutz@gesis.org>.
